# DP-Internal

## Advantages
* symmetry between haddock and superlatives
    - also exclusives? ordinals? 'same'? ...?
* tight syntactic coupling between def article and weird-adjective
* alternative set generated by nominal; not context-dependent
* connection to postsuppositional approaches with other cardinality-testing
  nominal modifiers (plurals, numerals)
    - also new perspective: postsuppositions as split-scope
* explanation for morphological definiteness of relative superalitives
* no relative readings under possessives
* island-respecting?

## Questions
* how to predict when the scope of 'the' should be left open and when it should
  be shut?
        + John put the book on the table -->
          John put the book that he put on a table on the table that he put a book on 
        + The book is on the table -/->
          The book that's on a table is on the table that a book is on
    - subject vs object?
* why do exclusives resist relative readings inside DPs?
        + the circle in the only square
    - adjectival 'only' is absolute by default "only man [I ever met]"?
* interactions with quantifiers, negation, modals?
* combinations of weird adjectives, haddocks, etc.?
* more deeply nested DPs


# Extension to CPs

## Advantages
* symmetry between exclusives and superlatives
    + JOHN sold the only car today -->
      John, unlike anyone else, sold a car today
    + JOHN sold the nicest car today -->
      John, more than anyone else, sold a nice car today 
* no relative readings under possessives
* focus-sensitive definite
    + JOHN brought the book -->
      It was John who brought a book
* no relative readings out of restrictor
    + I read the biggest book of POEMS -/->
      I read a bigger book of poems than I did of short stores
* no need for unusual, island-defying scopal degree morphemes
    - 'the highest mountain' takes scope as a unit
* good truth conditions, and explanation for morpological definiteness of
  relative superlatives, IF the definite index can point to the subject
    - how to prevent this from rank overgeneration?

## Questions
* upstairs de dicto as functional reading?
    - contrast between modal and quantificational "upstairs" cases
        + JOHN scored the most points in every game -/->
          John's lowest scoring game was still better than everyone else's
* principled polymorphic coverage of alternatives generated by
    - PRO
        + You win by putting the biggest plant on the table
    - wh-words
        + Who climbed the highest mountain
    - nominals, vps, and other basic property-denoting constituents
        + the circle in the biggest square
        - Bill climbed the highest mountain [no focus]
    - focus
        + I gave the best present to MARY

## Further things to wonder about
* generality of split-scope approach to quantifiers
    - negative concord?
    - mutual recursion?
* partitives (both of the squares)
* numerals (the two squares)
* other weird adjectives
    + 'same', 'occasional', 'possible', etc.
* anomalously good relative readings out of restrictors
    - picture nominals
        + I took the best photo of LONDON
    + amount superlatives
        + John bought the most books with MY name in the title
    - copular/predicative superlatives
        + John is the biggest fan of BASKETBALL
